- [Instructor] Now we will build our first controller.
So the first thing that we're going to do
is we're going to open up source, main, java.
We're going to create a new package,
and that package is going to be called web.
And within that package, let's create a new class
called RoomReservationController.
We will annotate this with @Controller,
and we're also going to annotate this with RequestMapping.
The RequestMapping that we are going to use
is /reservations.
Now, in order for this class to work properly,
we're going to need a couple attributes,
so private final DateUtils
and private final ReservationService.
Let's create a constructor.
Now, we're going to create a method,
and let's start with the signature of that method,
so public String getReservations.
We are going to take in a string, which is a dateString,
and we are going to take in something called a model.
And as you might imagine,
that is the Spring framework's model as part of the MVC.
Now, let's annotate this method.
So we're going to do a RequestMapping.
Now, usually, I write one class per URL endpoint,
and then I write as many methods in there as is necessary
in order to handle all of the verbs
that I need to respond to.
So we're going to do the same here.
So we're going to do a RequestMapping,
but instead of defining a URL,
we're simply going to specify RequestMethod.GET.
Now, this dateString needs to come from somewhere,
and we're going to actually use a RequestParam.
And the RequestParam will have the name
or value of date.
And we're going to also say
that this is required=false.
And there's a reason we're going to say that it's false,
and I'll get to that in just a moment.
So now that this is done,
we will create an instance of a date.
We will use the dateUtils,
and we will create a date from string.
And that's going to be the date string that's passed in.
Now, you may be asking, what happens if it's optional?
I just talked about that.
If you go look at this actual method,
if the date comes in as null, we will return a new date,
which means it will be equal to today.
So if no date is passed in, it's today,
otherwise, use the date that's passed in.
Now that we have a date,
we can get a list of RoomReservation,
and we will call this roomReservations,
and it will equal this.reservationService
.getRoomReservationsForDate.
We will pass in the date.
We will import java.util.List.
And now we're going to take our model element,
and we're going to add an attribute to it.
So this model is live, and that's what we need to use.
We're not going to actually create one to send the model.
We're going to let the framework do it.
This is a live model.
We can put whatever data we need to on here.
And in this case, we were going to put an attribute
called roomReservations and pass it our list.
Now, at this point, we need to return a string.
That doesn't really make sense until you understand
how this template engine works with Spring.
The string is actually the name
of the template that we want to return.
But instead of saying the full name of the template,
we actually just use the template's name
without the file extension.
And the reason for that is Spring Boot Starter Thymeleaf
is configured in such a way
that that HTML tag at the end doesn't matter.
And we'll talk more about that in the next video.
So we now are going to return something called roomres,
and we will build that roomres template.
There's one other thing that I want to do,
and I want to go to our static index file
that we built earlier,
and I want to add an a link
to /reservations,
and we will call this Room Reservations.
This way, if we forget to type in the URL,
we've got a link to it.
It'll save you some time.
Don't ask me how I know that.
I know it from experience.
That's all we need to do for this video.
Come in next, and we're going to write some Thymeleaf.